=========================================
 Installation instructions for Vaucanson
=========================================

:Date: 2005-01-15

Installation instructions for Vaucanson_, a C++ generic library for
weighted finite state machine. See also the file ``README``.

.. _Vaucanson: http://www.lrde.epita.fr/vaucanson

.. contents::

Installation
============

To install Vaucanson on your system, type in the classical sequence at
the command prompt::

	./configure
	make check
	make install (as root)

Note that an installation is  specific to the compiler used to install
it. Indeed, the call  to ``./configure`` enables some workarounds and,
consequently,  users must  compile  with the  same  compiler to  avoid
compatibility problems.

Additional features
-------------------

There  is a  Python  interpreter in  the  package. It  is disabled  by
default because its compilation takes  several hours. If you have time
to spare, use instead::

	./configure --enable-vaucanswig

There  is an  XML  I/O subsystem  in  the library.  It  is enabled  by
default,  but  requires a  working  installation  of another  software
package called Xerces-C++. If you do  not have this package, or if you
do not want to use XML I/O in Vaucanson, you can use::

	./configure --disable-xml

Tweaking compilation options
----------------------------

Use ``CXXFLAGS_DEBUG`` or ``CXXFLAGS_OPTIMIZE``  to pass debug or optimization
flags,  not ``CXXFLAGS``. For example::

	./configure CXXFLAGS_DEBUG='-fstack-check -fbounds-check -ggdb'

This is because  Vaucanson tries to use some  particular default flags
with some specific  compilers such as GCC or  ICC.  Using ``CXXFLAGS``
conflicts   with   those   specific  flags;   ``CXXFLAGS_DEBUG``   and
``CXXFLAGS_OPTIMIZE`` override these default flags.


Requirements
============

Vaucanson  was  tested with  the  `GNU  C++  Compiler (GCC)`_  version
3.[234],  and should  work  with ICC_  8.1.   The code  is written  in
respect to  the ISO-IEC  14882 (ISO C++)  standard to permit  a higher
portability in the future.

.. _GNU C++ Compiler (GCC): http://gcc.gnu.org/
.. _ICC: http://www.intel.com/software/products/compilers/

Moreover, high  verbose mode of the testing  suites uses the  AT&T dot
format to  save automaton  in a human  readable file.  Use Graphviz_ to
visualize these .dot files.

.. _Graphviz: http://www.research.att.com/sw/tools/graphviz/

If  you want  to use  the XML  I/O system,  you will  need  the Apache
`Xerces-C++`_ library version 2.3 or above.

.. _Xerces-C++: http://xml.apache.org/xerces-c/

Licence
=======

Vaucanson  is released under  the GNU  Lesser General  Public Licence.
See the file ``COPYING`` for details.


